packages/website/docs/tutorials/input-output.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
description: XXXX.
---

# Input/Output

:::note

This tutorial is licensed under [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). \
It is adapted from the original [mxGraph tutorial](https://github.com/jgraph/mxgraph/blob/v4.2.2/docs/tutorial.html).

> Copyright 2021-present The maxGraph project Contributors \
Copyright (c) JGraph Ltd 2006-2017

:::


## Codecs

See the dedicated [codecs page](../usage/codecs.md) for more information on how to use codecs.

<p>
  For encoding other objects, or if no editor instance is available,
  the <a href="js-api/files/io/mxCodec-js.html">mxCodec</a> can be
  used to create and read XML data.
</p>



<h2><a id="Files"></a>Files</h2>
<p>
  The save, open, readGraphModel and writeGraphModel functions
  implement a standard mechanism for handling files in
  <a href="js-api/files/editor/mxEditor-js.html">mxEditor</a>.
</p>
<p>
  The default implementation of <code>mxEditor.save</code> is called
  with an argument to indicate if the save was triggered by the user or
  by the system. It then uses the <code>urlPost</code> variable of
  the editor object to check if a post request should be issued. If
  the variable is defined, the editor issues a post request to the
  specified URL passing the XML along as a POST variable called xml.
</p>
<h2><a id="Post"></a>Post</h2>
<p>
  As an example, consider the following PHP file which is located
  in the same directory as the HTML page. If the filename is server.php
  then the urlPost variable must be set to server.php on the editor
  in order to post the diagram to the server. The PHP file will get
  the XML from the POST request and write it to a file called
  diagram.xml.
</p>
```php
<?php
$xml = $HTTP_POST_VARS['xml'];
if ($xml != null) {
  $fh=fopen("diagram.xml","w");
  fputs($fh, stripslashes($xml));
  fclose($fh);
}
?>
```

<p>
  To set the URL to post to, change the respective entry in the mxEditor node of the config file as follows:
</p>

```xml
&lt;mxEditor urlPost="http://www.example.com/server.php" ... &gt;
```

<p>
  Keep in mind that the JavaScript can only post to the server where it originated from, so we recommend
  to use relative URLs, eg. server.php.
</p>

<h2><a id="FormFields"></a>Form Fields</h2>
<p>
  If you need to read/write the graph from/to a string (eg. to fill a form-field), you can use the
  following methods:
</p>


```javascript
const data = editor.writeGraphModel();
editor.readGraphModel(mxUtils.parseXml(data));
```

Commit message:

add warning about the usage of the mxGraph code

packages/website/docs/tutorials/input-output.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
description: XXXX.
---

# Input/Output

:::warning

The content of this page is a **work in progress**.
The original `mxGraph` tutorial was used to create this page which still contains `mxGraph` code to migrate to the maxGraph API.

:::

:::note

This tutorial is licensed under [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). \
It is adapted from the original [mxGraph tutorial](https://github.com/jgraph/mxgraph/blob/v4.2.2/docs/tutorial.html).

> Copyright 2021-present The maxGraph project Contributors \
Copyright (c) JGraph Ltd 2006-2017

:::


## Codecs

See the dedicated [codecs page](../usage/codecs.md) for more information on how to use codecs.

<p>
  For encoding other objects, or if no editor instance is available,
  the <a href="js-api/files/io/mxCodec-js.html">mxCodec</a> can be
  used to create and read XML data.
</p>



<h2><a id="Files"></a>Files</h2>
<p>
  The save, open, readGraphModel and writeGraphModel functions
  implement a standard mechanism for handling files in
  <a href="js-api/files/editor/mxEditor-js.html">mxEditor</a>.
</p>
<p>
  The default implementation of <code>mxEditor.save</code> is called
  with an argument to indicate if the save was triggered by the user or
  by the system. It then uses the <code>urlPost</code> variable of
  the editor object to check if a post request should be issued. If
  the variable is defined, the editor issues a post request to the
  specified URL passing the XML along as a POST variable called xml.
</p>
<h2><a id="Post"></a>Post</h2>
<p>
  As an example, consider the following PHP file which is located
  in the same directory as the HTML page. If the filename is server.php
  then the urlPost variable must be set to server.php on the editor
  in order to post the diagram to the server. The PHP file will get
  the XML from the POST request and write it to a file called
  diagram.xml.
</p>
```php
<?php
$xml = $HTTP_POST_VARS['xml'];
if ($xml != null) {
  $fh=fopen("diagram.xml","w");
  fputs($fh, stripslashes($xml));
  fclose($fh);
}
?>
```

<p>
  To set the URL to post to, change the respective entry in the mxEditor node of the config file as follows:
</p>

```xml
&lt;mxEditor urlPost="http://www.example.com/server.php" ... &gt;
```

<p>
  Keep in mind that the JavaScript can only post to the server where it originated from, so we recommend
  to use relative URLs, eg. server.php.
</p>

<h2><a id="FormFields"></a>Form Fields</h2>
<p>
  If you need to read/write the graph from/to a string (eg. to fill a form-field), you can use the
  following methods:
</p>


```javascript
const data = editor.writeGraphModel();
editor.readGraphModel(mxUtils.parseXml(data));
```
