.github/pull_request_template.md, before:

<!--
👋 Hi, thanks for sending a Pull Request to maxGraph! 💖
Please fill out all fields below and make sure each item is true and [x] checked.
Otherwise we may not be able to review your PR.

All contributions to this project are done under the terms of the Apache 2.0 license as stated in the LICENSE file located at the root of this repository.


Note: core contributors are not required to use this template.
-->

## PR Checklist

- [ ] Addresses an existing open issue: closes #<the_issue_number_here>. If not, explain why (minor changes, etc.).
- [ ] You have discussed this issue with the maintainers of `maxGraph`, and you are assigned to the issue.
- [ ] The scope of the PR is small enough to review in a single session. PR targeting several issues should be split into separate PRs. Don't create large PR like https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/pull/88.
- [ ] The PR title follows the ["Conventional Commits"](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) guidelines.

<!--
The PR title must look like `<type>[optional scope]: <lower case description>`

*type* can be (see existing Pull Request for more elements):
- chore
- docs
- feat
- fix
- refactor
  ...

If defined, the _optional scope_ must be put in parentheses.

Note: The title is used as proposal for the maintainer merging the Pull Request.
-->


## Overview

<!-- Description of what and why is changed, and how the code change does that. -->
- Explain the **details** for making this change: What existing problem does the Pull Request solve? Why is this feature beneficial?
- If the Pull Request includes breaking changes, it must explicitly follow the syntax proposed by [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/#specification) (in the PR title and with a quote at this end of this overview).
- Includes keywords to reference the issue, e.g., "fixes #xxxx", "closes #xxxx", ... (where #xxxx is the issue number) and automatically closes it when the Pull Request is merged.
For more details about linking issues in Pull Requests, see https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue.
- Also include a short description of the changes in this Pull Request to be used as merge commit when merging the PR.
-->


## Notes

<!-- Use this paragraph to provide the reviewer with any additional information. Remove if not applicable -->

Commit message:

docs: improve guidance in PR template
Explicitly require
  - tests 
  - documentation
  - provide screenshots

.github/pull_request_template.md, after:

<!--
👋 Hi, thanks for sending a Pull Request to maxGraph! 💖
Please fill out all fields below and make sure each item is true and [x] checked.
Otherwise we may not be able to review your PR.

All contributions to this project are done under the terms of the Apache 2.0 license as stated in the LICENSE file located at the root of this repository.


Note: core contributors are not required to use this template.
-->

## PR Checklist

- [ ] Addresses an existing open issue: closes #<the_issue_number_here>. If not, explain why (minor changes, etc.).
- [ ] You have discussed this issue with the maintainers of `maxGraph`, and you are assigned to the issue.
- [ ] The scope of the PR is small enough to review in a single session. PR targeting several issues should be split into separate PRs. Don't create large PR like https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/pull/88.
- [ ] I have added tests to prove my fix is effective or my feature works. This can be done in the form of automatic tests in `packages/core/_tests_` or a new or altered Storybook story in `packages/html/stories` (an existing story may also demonstrate the change).
- [ ] I have provided screenshot/videos to demonstrate the change. If no releavant, explain why.
- [ ] I have added or edited necessary documentation, or no docs changes are needed.
- [ ] The PR title follows the ["Conventional Commits"](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) guidelines.
<!--
The PR title must look like `<type>[optional scope]: <lower case description>`

*type* can be (see existing Pull Request for more elements):
- chore
- docs
- feat
- fix
- refactor
  ...

If defined, the _optional scope_ must be put in parentheses.

Note: The title is used as proposal for the maintainer merging the Pull Request.
-->


## Overview

<!-- Description of what and why is changed, and how the code change does that. -->
- Explain the **details** for making this change: What existing problem does the Pull Request solve? Why is this feature beneficial?
- If the Pull Request includes breaking changes, it must explicitly follow the syntax proposed by [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/#specification) (in the PR title and with a quote at this end of this overview).
- Includes keywords to reference the issue, e.g., "fixes #xxxx", "closes #xxxx", ... (where #xxxx is the issue number) and automatically closes it when the Pull Request is merged.
For more details about linking issues in Pull Requests, see https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue.
- Also include a short description of the changes in this Pull Request to be used as merge commit when merging the PR.
-->


## Notes

<!-- Use this paragraph to provide the reviewer with any additional information. Remove if not applicable -->
