packages/website/docs/demo-and-examples.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Demos and Examples
[//]: # (extract of <rootdir>/README.md)


:::tip

The documentation does not cover all the features available in `maxGraph`. However, `maxGraph` does provide numerous examples. These examples show how to use the features and how `maxGraph` can be extended to meet new needs.

This page includes links to the examples and demos available in the `maxGraph` [GitHub organization](https://github.com/maxGraph).

:::

For more comprehensive examples than the [“Getting started” example](./getting-started.mdx), this page provides a list of demos and examples to help you understand how to use `maxGraph` and integrate it into your projects.

Note that they are based on `maxGraph` features, which require the use of [CSS and images](./usage/css-and-images.md) provided in the npm package.


## Interactive Demos
- the [storybook stories](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/tree/main/packages/html/stories) demonstrates various features of maxGraph.
  - The stories were originally written in `JavaScript` and are being progressively migrated to `TypeScript`.
  - A live instance is available on the [maxGraph website](https://maxgraph.github.io/maxGraph/demo).

## TypeScript Examples
- the [ts-example](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/tree/main/packages/ts-example) project/application demonstrates how to define and use custom `Shapes` with `maxGraph`. It is a vanilla TypeScript application built by [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/).
- the [ts-example-selected-features](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/tree/main/packages/ts-example-selected-features) project/application that demonstrates the same use case as in `ts-example` but which only loads the features and configuration required by the application for an efficient tree-shaking. It is a vanilla TypeScript application built by [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/).
- the [ts-example-without-defaults](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/tree/main/packages/ts-example-without-defaults) project/application demonstrates how to not use defaults plugins and style defaults (shapes, perimeters, ...). It is a vanilla TypeScript application built by [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/).

## JavaScript Examples
- the [js-example](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/tree/main/packages/js-example) project/application demonstrates how to import and export the `maxGraph` model with XML data. It is a vanilla JavaScript application built by [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/).
- the [js-example-selected-features](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/tree/main/packages/js-example-selected-features) project/application that demonstrates the same use case as in `ts-example` but which only loads the features and configuration required by the application for an efficient tree-shaking. It is a vanilla JavaScript application built by [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/).
- the [js-example-without-defaults](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/tree/main/packages/js-example-without-defaults) project/application demonstrates how to not use defaults plugins and style defaults (shapes, perimeters, ...). It is a vanilla JavaScript application built by [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/).

## Framework Integration and Bundlers
- the [maxgraph-integration-examples](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxgraph-integration-examples) repository shows how to integrate `maxGraph` with different frameworks and build tools.

[//]: # (END OF 'extract of <rootdir>/README.md')

Commit message:

feat: add CommonJS support to npm package
The new commonjs resources are built with a new tsc command and now referenced in the package.json file.

Add new examples using CommonJS with Node.js to demonstrate the new support:
- TypeScript example: show the integration with jest and ts-jest
- JavaScript example: use `maxGraph` in a headless environment with Node.js (and jsdom).
  This example exports Graph Model as XML, and exports the rendered Graph to SVG.

In addition, add missing git extension in the repository attribute of the package.json file.

packages/website/docs/demo-and-examples.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Demos and Examples
[//]: # (extract of <rootdir>/README.md)


:::tip

The documentation does not cover all the features available in `maxGraph`. However, `maxGraph` does provide numerous examples. These examples show how to use the features and how `maxGraph` can be extended to meet new needs.

This page includes links to the examples and demos available in the `maxGraph` [GitHub organization](https://github.com/maxGraph).

:::

For more comprehensive examples than the [“Getting started” example](./getting-started.mdx), this page provides a list of demos and examples to help you understand how to use `maxGraph` and integrate it into your projects.

Note that they are based on `maxGraph` features, which require the use of [CSS and images](./usage/css-and-images.md) provided in the npm package.


## Interactive Demos
- the [storybook stories](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/tree/main/packages/html/stories) demonstrates various features of maxGraph.
  - The stories were originally written in `JavaScript` and are being progressively migrated to `TypeScript`.
  - A live instance is available on the [maxGraph website](https://maxgraph.github.io/maxGraph/demo).

## TypeScript Examples
- the [ts-example](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/tree/main/packages/ts-example) project/application demonstrates how to define and use custom `Shapes` with `maxGraph`. It is a vanilla TypeScript application built by [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/).
- the [ts-example-jest-commonjs](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/tree/main/packages/ts-example-jest-commonjs) project that demonstrates how to run jest tests involving `maxGraph` with ts-jest, using CommonJS.
- the [ts-example-selected-features](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/tree/main/packages/ts-example-selected-features) project/application that demonstrates the same use case as in `ts-example` but which only loads the features and configuration required by the application for an efficient tree-shaking. It is a vanilla TypeScript application built by [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/).
- the [ts-example-without-defaults](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/tree/main/packages/ts-example-without-defaults) project/application demonstrates how to not use defaults plugins and style defaults (shapes, perimeters, ...). It is a vanilla TypeScript application built by [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/).

## JavaScript Examples
- the [js-example](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/tree/main/packages/js-example) project/application demonstrates how to import and export the `maxGraph` model with XML data. It is a vanilla JavaScript application built by [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/).
- the [js-example-nodejs](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/tree/main/packages/js-example-nodejs) project that demonstrates how to use `maxGraph` in a headless environment with Node.js.
- the [js-example-selected-features](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/tree/main/packages/js-example-selected-features) project/application that demonstrates the same use case as in `ts-example` but which only loads the features and configuration required by the application for an efficient tree-shaking. It is a vanilla JavaScript application built by [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/).
- the [js-example-without-defaults](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/tree/main/packages/js-example-without-defaults) project/application demonstrates how to not use defaults plugins and style defaults (shapes, perimeters, ...). It is a vanilla JavaScript application built by [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/).

## Framework Integration and Bundlers
- the [maxgraph-integration-examples](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxgraph-integration-examples) repository shows how to integrate `maxGraph` with different frameworks and build tools.

[//]: # (END OF 'extract of <rootdir>/README.md')
