packages/website/docs/intro.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Introduction

<!-- extract of <rootdir>/README.md -->
`maxGraph` is a TypeScript library which can display and allow interaction with vector diagrams. At a high level, it provides:
- **Nodes**, also known as **vertices** which are typically represented by shapes like rectangles.
- **Edges** which can be lines and arrows which normally point between one node and another.

It provides many of the diagramming features which would be expected by a piece of presentation software like Microsoft® PowerPoint™
or LibreOffice® Impress such as being able to resize, move or rotate nodes, but has a stronger focus on automatic layout
algorithms and applications of [Graph Theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graph_theory). It is suited towards software
which requires finer-grained customization of functionality than off-the-shelf packages.
<!-- END OF 'extract of <rootdir>/README.md' -->

## About this documentation

:::warning

This documentation is a **work in progress**.

Please be patient, as content will be gradually updated, especially the content of the original `mxGraph` documentation.

:::


## Getting Started

Please check the maxGraph repository **README**:
- [installation](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph#install)
- [getting started](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph#getting-started)


## Usage

Let's continue with the [Usage](/docs/category/usage) documentation.

Commit message:

docs: explain how to visualize the documentation for a specific version

packages/website/docs/intro.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Introduction

<!-- extract of <rootdir>/README.md -->
`maxGraph` is a TypeScript library which can display and allow interaction with vector diagrams. At a high level, it provides:
- **Nodes**, also known as **vertices** which are typically represented by shapes like rectangles.
- **Edges** which can be lines and arrows which normally point between one node and another.

It provides many of the diagramming features which would be expected by a piece of presentation software like Microsoft® PowerPoint™
or LibreOffice® Impress such as being able to resize, move or rotate nodes, but has a stronger focus on automatic layout
algorithms and applications of [Graph Theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graph_theory). It is suited towards software
which requires finer-grained customization of functionality than off-the-shelf packages.
<!-- END OF 'extract of <rootdir>/README.md' -->

## About this documentation

:::warning

This documentation is a **work in progress**.

Please be patient, as content will be gradually updated, especially the content of the original `mxGraph` documentation.

:::

:::tip

The documentation hosted at https://maxgraph.github.io/maxGraph includes the latest development changes.

To visualize the documentation for a specific version (and the corresponding demo):
- First, download the archive of the website attached to the [related release](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/releases). Documentation archives are available as of version `0.10.3`.
- Decompress the archive (it may include archives, in this case decompress them)
- Rename the root folder to maxGraph (the case matters!)
- From the parent of the root folder, start a webserver with a command like `npx http-server -c-1`
- The website will be available at `http://localhost:8080/maxGraph/` (or something similar) 

:::


## Getting Started

Please check the maxGraph repository **README**:
- [installation](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph#install)
- [getting started](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph#getting-started)


## Usage

Let's continue with the [Usage](/docs/category/usage) documentation.
