.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/01-bug-report.md, before:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve
title: "[BUG]"
labels: bug, triage
assignees: ''

---

### Describe the bug
A clear and concise description of what the bug is.

Please create a single issue for each bug. If you have multiple bugs, please create multiple issues.
This will help us to track and manage the issues more effectively.


### To Reproduce
Steps to reproduce the behavior:
1. Go to '...'
2. Click on '....'
3. Scroll down to '....'
4. See error (if the error is taking from the browser console, please provide the error message in the text form, no image)

If possible provide a repository to reproduce the issue. At minimum, provide the code (in text form, no image) that produces the issue.

### Expected behavior
A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.


### Screenshots
If applicable, add screenshots or videos to help explain your problem.


### Environment
- `maxGraph` version or commit:
- Desktop or mobile:
- OS and version: [e.g. iOS 14.1]
- Browser and version: [e.g. chrome 118, safari 15]
- Node/npm version (if applicable):
- Used frameworks (if applicable):



### Additional context
Add any other context about the problem here.

Commit message:

docs: enhance bug report template with additional guidance (#967)
Added notes to guide users in filling out the bug report template.

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/01-bug-report.md, after:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve
title: "[BUG]"
labels: bug, triage
assignees: ''

---

### Describe the bug

NOTE: PLEASE FOLLOW THIS TEMPLATE AND FILL ALL SECTIONS.
Investigations generally cannot correctly start without all details requested in the template.

A clear and concise description of what the bug is.

Please create a single issue for each bug. If you have multiple bugs, please create multiple issues.
This will help us to track and manage the issues more effectively.


### To Reproduce
Steps to reproduce the behavior:
1. Go to '...'
2. Click on '....'
3. Scroll down to '....'
4. See error (if the error is taking from the browser console, please provide the error message in the text form, no image)

If possible provide a repository to reproduce the issue.
At minimum, provide the code (in text form, no image) that produces the issue.

### Expected behavior
A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.

If the feature existed in `mxGraph`, please mention if it was working with `mxGraph`.
If you don't know the `mxGraph` status, please say it.

### Screenshots
If applicable, add screenshots or videos to help explain your problem.


### Environment
- `maxGraph` version or commit:
- Desktop or mobile:
- OS and version: [e.g. iOS 14.1]
- Browser and version: [e.g. chrome 118, safari 15]
- Node/npm version (if applicable):
- Used frameworks (if applicable):



### Additional context
Add any other context about the problem here.
