packages/website/docs/usage/codecs.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 10
description: Learn how to use codecs for serializing/exporting and deserializing/importing maxGraph objects in XML format.
---

# Codecs

## Introduction

The `Codec` feature is used for serialization and deserialization of objects in XML format.
It can be used to export/encode and import/decode `maxGraph` data, for example to save and load the state of graphs or the configuration of a graph.
- export/encode: convert a `maxGraph` object to an XML string
- import/decode: convert an XML string to a `maxGraph` object

The serialization/deserialization process is based on `Codec` classes that map the maxGraph objects to XML nodes and attributes.
The codecs are registered with `CodecRegistry` to let `maxGraph` know how to map a class to its related `Codec`.


## Codecs registration

To use codecs, you must register them for the classes you want to encode/decode before using a `Codec`. The registration is done with the `CodecRegistry` class.

:::note

`CodecRegistry` is a singleton so it holds a [global state](./global-configuration.md).

:::

`maxGraph` provides several functions to register the codecs provided out of the box:
- [registerAllCodecs](https://maxgraph.github.io/maxGraph/api-docs/functions/registerAllCodecs.html)
- [registerCoreCodecs](https://maxgraph.github.io/maxGraph/api-docs/functions/registerCoreCodecs.html)
- [registerEditorCodecs](https://maxgraph.github.io/maxGraph/api-docs/functions/registerEditorCodecs.html)
- [registerModelCodecs](https://maxgraph.github.io/maxGraph/api-docs/functions/registerModelCodecs.html)

:::warning

From [version 0.6.0](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/releases/tag/v0.6.0) of `maxGraph`, codecs supplied by `maxGraph` are no longer registered by default, they **MUST** be registered before performing an `encode` or `decode`

Registering codecs has an impact on the tree-shaking, so, only register the codecs you need to reduce the size of the final bundle.
:::


## Encode/Export and Decode/Import

To encode and decode data, you can use the `encode` and `decode` functions.

```typescript
import { Codec, popup, xmlUtils } from '@mxgraph/core';

// encode/export
const sourceObject = {}; // your object
const encoder = new Codec();
const node = encoder.encode(sourceObject);
const encodedXml = xmlUtils.getPrettyXml(node);

// decode/import
const xml = '...'; // your XML string
const targetObject = {}; // object to decode into
const decoder = new Codec();
const doc = xmlUtils.parseXml(input);
new Codec(doc).decode(doc.documentElement, targetObject);
```


## Special support of the GraphDataModel

### `ModelXmlSerializer`

As explained above, the typical usage of the `Codec` class requires you to:
- Register the codecs for the classes you want to encode/decode (using `registerModelCodecs`)
- Call the `encode` or `decode` method

To simplify the process of encoding and decoding the `GraphDataModel`, the `ModelXmlSerializer` class is provided.
It registers codecs under the hood and provides a simpler syntax.

The code becomes:

```typescript
import { GraphDataModel, ModelXmlSerializer } from '@mxgraph/core';

const model = new GraphDataModel();
const serializer = new ModelXmlSerializer(model);

// import/decode
const xml = '...'; // your XML string
serializer.import(xml);

// export/encode
const exportedXml = serializer.export();
```


### Import/Decode `mxGraph` models

`maxGraph` provides a special support to import `mxGraph` models which have a different XML structure (mainly because the name of the class are prefixed by `mx` in `mxGraph`).

This allows interoperability with `draw.io/diagrams.net` and ease the migration from `mxGraph`.

Here is an example of how to import an `mxGraph` model:

```typescript
    const mxGraphModelAsXml = `<mxGraphModel>
  <root>
    <mxCell id="0"/>
    <mxCell id="1" parent="0"/>
    <mxCell id="2" vertex="1" parent="1" value="Vertex #2">
      <mxGeometry x="380" y="20" width="140" height="30" as="geometry"/>
    </mxCell>
    <mxCell id="3" vertex="1" parent="1" value="Vertex #3">
      <mxGeometry x="200" y="80" width="380" height="30" as="geometry">
        <mxPoint x="1" y="1" as="offset"/>
      </mxGeometry>
    </mxCell>
    <mxCell id="7" edge="1" source="2" target="3" parent="1" value="Edge #7">
      <mxGeometry as="geometry">
        <Array as="points">
          <Object x="420" y="60"/>
        </Array>
      </mxGeometry>
    </mxCell>
  </root>
</mxGraphModel>
  `;

const model = new GraphDataModel();
new ModelXmlSerializer(model).import(mxGraphModelAsXml);
```

:::info
There is no support for export/encode mxGraph models
:::


## Troubleshooting

The most common error you may encounter when using Codecs is the "maximum call stack trace" error. It occurs when a class that you are trying to encode doesn't have a codec registered.

```bash
Uncaught RangeError: Maximum call stack size exceeded
    at ObjectCodec.writeAttribute (ObjectCodec.js:384:19)
    at ObjectCodec.encodeValue (ObjectCodec.js:376:22)
    at ObjectCodec.encodeObject (ObjectCodec.js:346:22)
    at ObjectCodec.encode (ObjectCodec.js:326:14)
    at Codec.encode (Codec.js:285:28)
    at ObjectCodec.writeComplexAttribute (ObjectCodec.js:415:27)
    at ObjectCodec.writeAttribute (ObjectCodec.js:389:18)
    at ObjectCodec.encodeValue (ObjectCodec.js:376:22)
    at ObjectCodec.encodeObject (ObjectCodec.js:346:22)
    at ObjectCodec.encode (ObjectCodec.js:326:14)
```

Generally, this error is thrown when you try to encode a class that is not registered in the `CodecRegistry`. To fix this error, you need to register the codec for the class.
Start by using one of the [_register_ functions](#codecs-registration) provided by `maxGraph`.


## Using custom object and custom Codec

:::note

This paragraph is licensed under [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). \
It is adapted from the original [mxGraph tutorial](https://github.com/jgraph/mxgraph/blob/v4.2.2/docs/tutorial.html).

> Copyright 2021-present The maxGraph project Contributors \
Copyright (c) JGraph Ltd 2006-2020

:::


The default encoding scheme maps all non-object fields to string attributes and all object fields to child nodes, using the constructor
name of the object as the node name and the field name for the as-attribute value.
This default encoding scheme may be overridden by custom codecs, which are registered in the `CodecRegistry`.

For example, consider the following JavaScript object definition:
```typescript
const object = {
    myBool: true,
    myObject: {
        name: 'Test'
    },
    myArray: ['a', ['b', 'c'], 'd']
};
```

To encode/export this object and show the resulting XML in a new window, the following code is used:

```typescript
import { Codec, popup } from '@mxgraph/core';

const encoder = new Codec();
const node = encoder.encode(object);
popup(xmlUtils.getXml(node));
```


And here is the XML structure that represents the object:
```xml
<Object myBool="1">
  <Object name="Test" as="myObject"/>
  <Array as="myArray">
    <add value="a"/>
    <Array>
      <add value="b"/>
      <add value="c"/>
    </Array>
    <add value="d"/>
  </Array>
</Object>
```

Note that the codecs will turn booleans into numeric values, no array indices are stored if they are numeric and non-object
array members are stored inside the value-attribute.
Furthermore, one may include other XML files by use of the `include` directive in the XML structures.


## Examples and Demos

More complex examples and demos involving Codecs are available in the `maxGraph` repository.

Load a data model from an XML file using ModelXmlSerializer or from a custom text file with custom parsing (no Codecs involved)
- live demo: [FileIO](https://maxgraph.github.io/maxGraph/demo/?path=/story/xml-json-fileio--default)
- source code: [FileIO.stories.ts](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/blob/main/packages/html/stories/FileIO.stories.ts)

Import mxGraph data model
- live demo: [CodecImport_mxGraph](https://maxgraph.github.io/maxGraph/demo/?path=/story/misc-codecimport-mxgraph--default)
- source code: [Codec.stories.ts](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/blob/main/packages/html/stories/Codec.stories.ts)

Import vertex including custom XML data in the Cell value, with ModelXmlSerializer and a Custom Codec to handle the custom XML data
- live demo: [JsonData](https://maxgraph.github.io/maxGraph/demo/?path=/story/xml-json-jsondata--default)
- source code: [JsonData.stories.ts](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/blob/main/packages/html/stories/JsonData.stories.ts)

Export the data model to an XML file using ModelXmlSerializer, custom data in the Cell value
- live demo: [UserObject](https://maxgraph.github.io/maxGraph/demo/?path=/story/xml-json-userobject--default)
- source code: [UserObject.stories.ts](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/blob/main/packages/html/stories/UserObject.stories.ts)

In addition, the `js-example` package in this repository is importing an maxGraph model stored as XML string. This is a vanilla JS project built with Webpack.
So, it should contain everything you need for your use case. See [js-example source code](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/blob/main/packages/js-example/src/index.js)

Commit message:

feat: let register and unregister default style elements (#757)
Previously, it was only possible to register the default builtins internally.
"Edge Marker" factory functions, used to display start and end arrows (and other shapes), are now public.
This makes it easier for applications to customize the style they need to configure.

Introduce "unregister" functions to clean the maxGraph registries:
  - They reset the loading states of the "default" elements to ensure they can be loaded again.
  - Codec unregister is also available.
  - All new unregister functions are used within the story to reduce edge effects between stories.

packages/website/docs/usage/codecs.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 10
description: Learn how to use codecs for serializing/exporting and deserializing/importing maxGraph objects in XML format.
---

# Codecs

## Introduction

The `Codec` feature is used for serialization and deserialization of objects in XML format.
It can be used to export/encode and import/decode `maxGraph` data, for example to save and load the state of graphs or the configuration of a graph.
- export/encode: convert a `maxGraph` object to an XML string
- import/decode: convert an XML string to a `maxGraph` object

The serialization/deserialization process is based on `Codec` classes that map the maxGraph objects to XML nodes and attributes.
The codecs are registered with `CodecRegistry` to let `maxGraph` know how to map a class to its related `Codec`.


## Codecs registration

To use codecs, you must register them for the classes you want to encode/decode before using a `Codec`. The registration is done with the `CodecRegistry` class.

:::note

`CodecRegistry` is a singleton so it holds a [global state](./global-configuration.md).

:::

`maxGraph` provides several functions to register the codecs provided out of the box:
- [registerAllCodecs](https://maxgraph.github.io/maxGraph/api-docs/functions/registerAllCodecs.html)
- [registerCoreCodecs](https://maxgraph.github.io/maxGraph/api-docs/functions/registerCoreCodecs.html)
- [registerEditorCodecs](https://maxgraph.github.io/maxGraph/api-docs/functions/registerEditorCodecs.html)
- [registerModelCodecs](https://maxgraph.github.io/maxGraph/api-docs/functions/registerModelCodecs.html)

:::warning

From [version 0.6.0](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/releases/tag/v0.6.0) of `maxGraph`, codecs supplied by `maxGraph` are no longer registered by default, they **MUST** be registered before performing an `encode` or `decode`

Registering codecs has an impact on the tree-shaking, so, only register the codecs you need to reduce the size of the final bundle.
:::

It is possible to unregister all elements from `CodecRegistry` using the related `unregister` function:

```javascript
unregisterAllCodecs();
```


## Encode/Export and Decode/Import

To encode and decode data, you can use the `encode` and `decode` functions.

```typescript
import { Codec, popup, xmlUtils } from '@mxgraph/core';

// encode/export
const sourceObject = {}; // your object
const encoder = new Codec();
const node = encoder.encode(sourceObject);
const encodedXml = xmlUtils.getPrettyXml(node);

// decode/import
const xml = '...'; // your XML string
const targetObject = {}; // object to decode into
const decoder = new Codec();
const doc = xmlUtils.parseXml(input);
new Codec(doc).decode(doc.documentElement, targetObject);
```


## Special support of the GraphDataModel

### `ModelXmlSerializer`

As explained above, the typical usage of the `Codec` class requires you to:
- Register the codecs for the classes you want to encode/decode (using `registerModelCodecs`)
- Call the `encode` or `decode` method

To simplify the process of encoding and decoding the `GraphDataModel`, the `ModelXmlSerializer` class is provided.
It registers codecs under the hood and provides a simpler syntax.

The code becomes:

```typescript
import { GraphDataModel, ModelXmlSerializer } from '@mxgraph/core';

const model = new GraphDataModel();
const serializer = new ModelXmlSerializer(model);

// import/decode
const xml = '...'; // your XML string
serializer.import(xml);

// export/encode
const exportedXml = serializer.export();
```


### Import/Decode `mxGraph` models

`maxGraph` provides a special support to import `mxGraph` models which have a different XML structure (mainly because the name of the class are prefixed by `mx` in `mxGraph`).

This allows interoperability with `draw.io/diagrams.net` and ease the migration from `mxGraph`.

Here is an example of how to import an `mxGraph` model:

```typescript
    const mxGraphModelAsXml = `<mxGraphModel>
  <root>
    <mxCell id="0"/>
    <mxCell id="1" parent="0"/>
    <mxCell id="2" vertex="1" parent="1" value="Vertex #2">
      <mxGeometry x="380" y="20" width="140" height="30" as="geometry"/>
    </mxCell>
    <mxCell id="3" vertex="1" parent="1" value="Vertex #3">
      <mxGeometry x="200" y="80" width="380" height="30" as="geometry">
        <mxPoint x="1" y="1" as="offset"/>
      </mxGeometry>
    </mxCell>
    <mxCell id="7" edge="1" source="2" target="3" parent="1" value="Edge #7">
      <mxGeometry as="geometry">
        <Array as="points">
          <Object x="420" y="60"/>
        </Array>
      </mxGeometry>
    </mxCell>
  </root>
</mxGraphModel>
  `;

const model = new GraphDataModel();
new ModelXmlSerializer(model).import(mxGraphModelAsXml);
```

:::info
There is no support for export/encode mxGraph models
:::


## Troubleshooting

The most common error you may encounter when using Codecs is the "maximum call stack trace" error. It occurs when a class that you are trying to encode doesn't have a codec registered.

```bash
Uncaught RangeError: Maximum call stack size exceeded
    at ObjectCodec.writeAttribute (ObjectCodec.js:384:19)
    at ObjectCodec.encodeValue (ObjectCodec.js:376:22)
    at ObjectCodec.encodeObject (ObjectCodec.js:346:22)
    at ObjectCodec.encode (ObjectCodec.js:326:14)
    at Codec.encode (Codec.js:285:28)
    at ObjectCodec.writeComplexAttribute (ObjectCodec.js:415:27)
    at ObjectCodec.writeAttribute (ObjectCodec.js:389:18)
    at ObjectCodec.encodeValue (ObjectCodec.js:376:22)
    at ObjectCodec.encodeObject (ObjectCodec.js:346:22)
    at ObjectCodec.encode (ObjectCodec.js:326:14)
```

Generally, this error is thrown when you try to encode a class that is not registered in the `CodecRegistry`. To fix this error, you need to register the codec for the class.
Start by using one of the [_register_ functions](#codecs-registration) provided by `maxGraph`.


## Using custom object and custom Codec

:::note

This paragraph is licensed under [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). \
It is adapted from the original [mxGraph tutorial](https://github.com/jgraph/mxgraph/blob/v4.2.2/docs/tutorial.html).

> Copyright 2021-present The maxGraph project Contributors \
Copyright (c) JGraph Ltd 2006-2020

:::


The default encoding scheme maps all non-object fields to string attributes and all object fields to child nodes, using the constructor
name of the object as the node name and the field name for the as-attribute value.
This default encoding scheme may be overridden by custom codecs, which are registered in the `CodecRegistry`.

For example, consider the following JavaScript object definition:
```typescript
const object = {
    myBool: true,
    myObject: {
        name: 'Test'
    },
    myArray: ['a', ['b', 'c'], 'd']
};
```

To encode/export this object and show the resulting XML in a new window, the following code is used:

```typescript
import { Codec, popup } from '@mxgraph/core';

const encoder = new Codec();
const node = encoder.encode(object);
popup(xmlUtils.getXml(node));
```


And here is the XML structure that represents the object:
```xml
<Object myBool="1">
  <Object name="Test" as="myObject"/>
  <Array as="myArray">
    <add value="a"/>
    <Array>
      <add value="b"/>
      <add value="c"/>
    </Array>
    <add value="d"/>
  </Array>
</Object>
```

Note that the codecs will turn booleans into numeric values, no array indices are stored if they are numeric and non-object
array members are stored inside the value-attribute.
Furthermore, one may include other XML files by use of the `include` directive in the XML structures.


## Examples and Demos

More complex examples and demos involving Codecs are available in the `maxGraph` repository.

Load a data model from an XML file using ModelXmlSerializer or from a custom text file with custom parsing (no Codecs involved)
- live demo: [FileIO](https://maxgraph.github.io/maxGraph/demo/?path=/story/xml-json-fileio--default)
- source code: [FileIO.stories.ts](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/blob/main/packages/html/stories/FileIO.stories.ts)

Import mxGraph data model
- live demo: [CodecImport_mxGraph](https://maxgraph.github.io/maxGraph/demo/?path=/story/misc-codecimport-mxgraph--default)
- source code: [Codec.stories.ts](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/blob/main/packages/html/stories/Codec.stories.ts)

Import vertex including custom XML data in the Cell value, with ModelXmlSerializer and a Custom Codec to handle the custom XML data
- live demo: [JsonData](https://maxgraph.github.io/maxGraph/demo/?path=/story/xml-json-jsondata--default)
- source code: [JsonData.stories.ts](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/blob/main/packages/html/stories/JsonData.stories.ts)

Export the data model to an XML file using ModelXmlSerializer, custom data in the Cell value
- live demo: [UserObject](https://maxgraph.github.io/maxGraph/demo/?path=/story/xml-json-userobject--default)
- source code: [UserObject.stories.ts](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/blob/main/packages/html/stories/UserObject.stories.ts)

In addition, the `js-example` package in this repository is importing an maxGraph model stored as XML string. This is a vanilla JS project built with Webpack.
So, it should contain everything you need for your use case. See [js-example source code](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/blob/main/packages/js-example/src/index.js)
