packages/website/docs/usage/global-configuration.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
description: How-to configure maxGraph globally.
---

# Global Configuration

This guide explains how to configure `maxGraph` globally. This global configuration applies to all instances of `Graph`.


## General

The following objects can be used to configure `maxGraph` globally:

  - `Client`: this is the historical entry point for global configuration, coming from the `mxGraph` library.
  - `GlobalConfig` (since 0.11.0): for shared resources (logger).
  - `StencilShapeConfig` (since 0.11.0): for stencil shapes.
  - `VertexHandlerConfig` (since 0.12.0): for `VertexHandler`.

Notice that the new global configuration elements introduced as version _0.11.0_ are experimental and are subject to change in future versions.

## Styles

`maxGraph` provides several global registries used to register style configurations.

  - `CellRenderer`: shapes
  - `MarkerShape`: edge markers (also known as `startArrow` and `endArrow` in `CellStateStyle`)
  - `StyleRegistry`: edge styles and perimeters
  - `StencilShapeRegistry`: stencil shapes

When instantiating a `Graph` object, the registries are filled with `maxGraph` default style configurations. There is no default stencil shapes registered by default.


## Serialization

`CodecRegistry` is used for serialization and deserialization of objects in XML object.
By default, no codec is registered. Some functions are provided to register codecs for specific objects.

Commit message:

feat: introduce a way to configure handles in `VertexHandler`
In `mxGraph`, such configuration was possible by updating some mxConstants values, but in
`maxGraph`, constants are immutable.
It is now possible to use `VertexHandlerConfig` to globally configure various settings like the fill color.
Previously, configure such settings required to extend `VertexHandler`.

A new `HandleConfig` object was added for shared settings with edge handlers which are now using it
as well.

Some stories hadn't been fully migrated from mxGraph: the mxGraph examples relied on updating
mxConstants values to configure handles. They have been updated as well to better match the mxGraph
behaviour.

Lastly, it is possible to reset the properties in `HandleConfig` and `VertexHandlerConfig` to their
default values by using dedicated reset functions.
The stories use them at initialization to prevent side effects from other stories (as this settings
apply globally).

packages/website/docs/usage/global-configuration.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
description: How-to configure maxGraph globally.
---

# Global Configuration

This guide explains how to configure `maxGraph` globally. This global configuration applies to all instances of `Graph`.


## General

The following objects can be used to configure `maxGraph` globally:

  - `Client`: this is the historical entry point for global configuration, coming from the `mxGraph` library.
  - `GlobalConfig` (since 0.11.0): for shared resources (logger).
  - `HandleConfig` (since 0.14.0): for shared handle configurations.
  - `StencilShapeConfig` (since 0.11.0): for stencil shapes.
  - `VertexHandlerConfig` (since 0.12.0): for `VertexHandler`.

Some functions are provided to reset the global configuration to the default values. For example:

  - `resetHandleConfig` (since 0.14.0)
  - `resetVertexHandlerConfig` (since 0.14.0)

:::note
Notice that the new global configuration elements introduced as version _0.11.0_ are experimental and are subject to change in future versions.
:::

:::info
For former mxGraph users, the global configuration objects allow to set the default values previously defined in `mxConstants` and used everywhere in the code.
Not all values are currently configurable yet, but the list is growing. 

See also discussions in [issue #192](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/issues/192).
:::

## Styles

`maxGraph` provides several global registries used to register style configurations.

  - `CellRenderer`: shapes
  - `MarkerShape`: edge markers (also known as `startArrow` and `endArrow` in `CellStateStyle`)
  - `StyleRegistry`: edge styles and perimeters
  - `StencilShapeRegistry`: stencil shapes

When instantiating a `Graph` object, the registries are filled with `maxGraph` default style configurations. There is no default stencil shapes registered by default.


## Serialization

`CodecRegistry` is used for serialization and deserialization of objects in XML object.
By default, no codec is registered. Some functions are provided to register codecs for specific objects.
