packages/website/docs/usage/i18n.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 10
description: How to use i18n with maxGraph.
---

## i18n Mechanism in maxGraph

`maxGraph` provides an internationalization (i18n) mechanism to support multiple languages in applications. It is based on text resource files.

These files are managed by the `Translations` class.\
By default, the following conventions apply:
- Resource files use the `.txt` extension.
- The default language is the browser's language, with a fallback to English.

Language support can be configured via `Client.languages`.

`maxGraph` includes built-in translations for Chinese, English, and German, covering `Graph` and `Editor`. These resource files are located in the `resources` folder of the npm package:
- `resources/editor*.txt`
- `resources/graph*.txt`

### Loading i18n Resources

To load a resource, you need to:
1. Ensure that the i18n files are available in your application so they can be fetched via a GET request. This usually involves copying the resource files from the `maxGraph` npm package into a dedicated folder within your application.
2. Use either `Translations.add` or `Translations.loadResources` to load the required resources. When using `Translations.loadResources`, files are fetched from `${Client.basePath}/resources/`.

### Examples

The Storybook demo showcases how to configure and use the i18n mechanism in different scenarios.

Resource files are loaded in the [`preview.ts`](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/blob/main/packages/html/.storybook/preview.ts) file.

The following stories illustrate the translation of validation messages. Try connecting the same vertices twice to trigger a validation error displayed in a browser alert:
- **Validation story**:
  - **Live demo**: [Validation](https://maxgraph.github.io/maxGraph/demo/?path=/story/misc-validation--default)
  - **Source code**: [Validation.stories.js](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/blob/main/packages/html/stories/Validation.stories.js)
- **Permissions story**:
  - **Live demo**: [Permissions](https://maxgraph.github.io/maxGraph/demo/?path=/story/misc-permissions--default)
  - **Source code**: [Permissions.stories.js](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/blob/main/packages/html/stories/Permissions.stories.js)

In the `HelloPort` story, select an edge to display a translated message in the tooltip of the bend point. (Note: The double-click action does not work, same behavior as in mxGraph.)
- **Live demo**: [HelloPort](https://maxgraph.github.io/maxGraph/demo/?path=/story/misc-helloport--default)
- **Source code**: [HelloPort.stories.ts](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/blob/main/packages/html/stories/HelloPort.stories.ts)

Commit message:

feat!: introduce `TranslationsConfig`
Move the configuration related to `Translations` that was previously stored in `Client` to a new `TranslationsConfig` object.
This makes things more explicit and consistent with the other focussed configuration objects.

BREAKING CHANGES: All elements that were in `Client` to manage the configuration of `Translations` have moved to `TranslationsConfig`:
  - `Client.defaultLanguage` to `TranslationsConfig.getDefaultLanguage`
  - `Client.setDefaultLanguage` to `TranslationsConfig.setDefaultLanguage`
  - `Client.language` to `TranslationsConfig.getLanguage`
  - `Client.setLanguage` to `TranslationsConfig.setLanguage`
  - `Client.languages` to `TranslationsConfig.getLanguages`
  - `Client.setLanguages` to `TranslationsConfig.setLanguages`

packages/website/docs/usage/i18n.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 10
description: How to use i18n with maxGraph.
---

## i18n Mechanism in maxGraph

`maxGraph` provides an internationalization (i18n) mechanism to support multiple languages in applications. It is based on text resource files.

These files are managed by the `Translations` class.\
By default, the following conventions apply:
- Resource files use the `.txt` extension.
- The default language is the browser's language, with a fallback to English.

Language support can be configured via `TranslationsConfig.setlanguages`.

`maxGraph` includes built-in translations for Chinese, English, and German, covering `Graph` and `Editor`. These resource files are located in the `resources` folder of the npm package:
- `resources/editor*.txt`
- `resources/graph*.txt`

The format of the resource files is as follows:
```txt
# Comment
key=value
# Another comment
key2=value2
```


### Loading i18n Resources

To load a resource, you need to:
1. Ensure that the i18n files are available in your application so they can be fetched via a GET request. This usually involves copying the resource files from the `maxGraph` npm package into a dedicated folder within your application.
2. Use either `Translations.add` or `Translations.loadResources` to load the required resources. When using `Translations.loadResources`, files are fetched from `${Client.basePath}/resources/`.

### Examples

The Storybook demo showcases how to configure and use the i18n mechanism in different scenarios.

Resource files are loaded in the [`preview.ts`](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/blob/main/packages/html/.storybook/preview.ts) file.

The following stories illustrate the translation of validation messages. Try connecting the same vertices twice to trigger a validation error displayed in a browser alert:
- **Validation story**:
  - **Live demo**: [Validation](https://maxgraph.github.io/maxGraph/demo/?path=/story/misc-validation--default)
  - **Source code**: [Validation.stories.js](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/blob/main/packages/html/stories/Validation.stories.js)
- **Permissions story**:
  - **Live demo**: [Permissions](https://maxgraph.github.io/maxGraph/demo/?path=/story/misc-permissions--default)
  - **Source code**: [Permissions.stories.js](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/blob/main/packages/html/stories/Permissions.stories.js)

In the `HelloPort` story, select an edge to display a translated message in the tooltip of the bend point. (Note: The double-click action does not work, same behavior as in mxGraph.)
- **Live demo**: [HelloPort](https://maxgraph.github.io/maxGraph/demo/?path=/story/misc-helloport--default)
- **Source code**: [HelloPort.stories.ts](https://github.com/maxGraph/maxGraph/blob/main/packages/html/stories/HelloPort.stories.ts)
