packages/website/docs/development/high-level-api-description.md, before:

---
description: Explain how to do a release of maxGraph.
---

# High-level API description

:::note

The following is adapted from the [mxGraph API Specification](ttps://github.com/jgraph/graph/blob/v4.2.2/javascript/src/js/index.txt).

:::

## Overview

This JavaScript library is divided into several folders.

The *editor* folder provides the classes required to implement a diagram editor.
The main class is `Editor`.

The *gui* folder provides, for example, `MaxLog` for console output using `MaxWindow` (a graphical Window with some built-ins style).

The *serialization* package implements a generic `ObjectCodec` for turning JavaScript objects into XML.
- The main class is `Codec`.
- `CodecRegistry` is the global registry for custom codecs

The *util* folder provides utility classes including
- `Clipboard` for copy-paste
- `Constants` for default values used by `maxGraph`
- `EventUtils` and `Utils` for cross-browser event-handling and general purpose functions
- `Resources` for internationalization

The *view* folder implement the graph component, represented by `Graph`:
- It refers to a `GraphDataModel` which contains `Cell`s and caches the state of the cells in a `GraphView`
- The cells are painted using a `CellRenderer` based on the appearance defined in `Stylesheet`
- Undo history is implemented in `UndoManager`
- To display an icon on the graph, `CellOverlay` may be used
- Validation rules are defined with `Multiplicity`
- The *handler*, *layout* and *geometry* sub-folders contain event listeners, layout algorithms and shapes, respectively.
  - The graph event listeners include `RubberbandHandler` for rubberband selection, `TooltipHandler` for tooltips and `SelectionHandler` for  basic cell modifications
  - `CompactTreeLayout` implements a tree layout algorithm
  -  and the geometry sub-folder provides various shapes, which are subclasses of `Shape`


## Events

There are three different types of events, namely native DOM events, `EventObjects` which are fired in an `EventSource`, and `MouseEvents` which are fired in `Graph`.

Some helper methods for handling native events are provided in `Event`.
It  also takes care of resolving cycles between DOM nodes and JavaScript event handlers.

Most custom events in Graph are implemented using `EventSource`. \
Its listeners are functions that take a sender and `EventObject`. \
Additionally, the `Graph` class fires special `MouseEvents` which are handled using mouse listeners, which are objects that provide a mousedown, mousemove and mouseup method.

Events in `EventSource` are fired using `EventSource.fireEvent`. \
Listeners are added and removed using `EventSource.addListener` and `EventSource.removeListener`. \
`MouseEvents` in `Graph` are fired using `Graph.fireMouseEvent`. Listeners are added and removed using `Graph.addMouseListener` and `Graph.removeMouseListener`, respectively.


## Key bindings

The following key bindings are defined for mouse events in the client across all browsers and platforms:
- Control-Drag: Duplicates (clones) selected cells
- Shift-Right-click: Shows the context menu
- Alt-Click: Forces rubberband (aka. marquee)
- Control-Select: Toggles the selection state
- Shift-Drag: Constrains the offset to one direction
- Shift-Control-Drag: Panning (also Shift-Right-drag)


## Configuration with the `Client` class

:::note

Other global configurations are described in [Global Configuration](../usage/global-configuration.md) documentation.

:::

The following global variables may be defined before the client is loaded to specify its language or base path, respectively:
- BasePath: Specifies the path in `Client.basePath`.
- ImageBasePath: Specifies the path in `Client.imageBasePath`.
- Language: Specifies the language for resources in `Client.language`.
- DefaultLanguage: Specifies the default language in `Client.defaultLanguage`.


## Reserved Words

The __ prefix was used for all classes and objects in Graph. Some remains in some properties of objects and classes defined in `maxGraph`.
The following field names should not be used in objects:
- *ObjectId*: If the object is used with ObjectIdentity
- *as*: If the object is a field of another object
- *id*: If the object is an idref in a codec
- *ListenerList*: Added to DOM nodes when used with `Event`


## Files

The library contains these relative filenames. All filenames are relative to `Client.basePath`.

### Built-in Images

All images are loaded from the `Client.imageBasePath`, which you can change to reflect your environment. \
The image variables can also be changed individually, using properties in `Graph`:
- collapsedImage
- expandedImage
- warningImage
- closeImage
- minimizeImage
- normalizeImage
- maximizeImage
- resizeImage
- submenuImage
- Utils.errorImage
- pointImage

The basename of the warning image (images/warning without extension) used in `Graph.setCellWarning` is defined in `Graph.warningImage`.


### Translations

:::warning

The following comes from `mxGraph` and needs to be reworked.
:::

The `Editor` and `Graph` classes add the following resources to `Translations` at class loading time:
- resources/editor*.properties
- resources/graph*.properties

By default, the library ships with English and German resource files.


## Images

The following comes from `Graph` and needs to be updated to reflect the current state of `maxGraph`.

### Recommendations for using images

Use GIF images (256 color palette) in HTML elements (such as the toolbar and context menu),
and PNG images (24 bit) for all images which appear inside the graph component.

### Image rendering

For faster image rendering during application runtime, images can be prefetched using the following code:

```javascript
const image = new ImageBox();
image.src = url_to_image;
```

Commit message:

fix typo and improve the "translations" paragraph

packages/website/docs/development/high-level-api-description.md, after:

---
description: Explain how to do a release of maxGraph.
---

# High-level API description

:::note

The following is adapted from the [mxGraph API Specification]https://github.com/jgraph/graph/blob/v4.2.2/javascript/src/js/index.txt).

:::

## Overview

This JavaScript library is divided into several folders.

The *editor* folder provides the classes required to implement a diagram editor.
The main class is `Editor`.

The *gui* folder provides, for example, `MaxLog` for console output using `MaxWindow` (a graphical Window with some built-ins style).

The *serialization* package implements a generic `ObjectCodec` for turning JavaScript objects into XML.
- The main class is `Codec`.
- `CodecRegistry` is the global registry for custom codecs

The *util* folder provides utility classes including
- `Clipboard` for copy-paste
- `Constants` for default values used by `maxGraph`
- `EventUtils` and `Utils` for cross-browser event-handling and general purpose functions
- `Resources` for internationalization

The *view* folder implement the graph component, represented by `Graph`:
- It refers to a `GraphDataModel` which contains `Cell`s and caches the state of the cells in a `GraphView`
- The cells are painted using a `CellRenderer` based on the appearance defined in `Stylesheet`
- Undo history is implemented in `UndoManager`
- To display an icon on the graph, `CellOverlay` may be used
- Validation rules are defined with `Multiplicity`
- The *handler*, *layout* and *geometry* sub-folders contain event listeners, layout algorithms and shapes, respectively.
  - The graph event listeners include `RubberbandHandler` for rubberband selection, `TooltipHandler` for tooltips and `SelectionHandler` for  basic cell modifications
  - `CompactTreeLayout` implements a tree layout algorithm
  -  and the geometry sub-folder provides various shapes, which are subclasses of `Shape`


## Events

There are three different types of events, namely native DOM events, `EventObjects` which are fired in an `EventSource`, and `MouseEvents` which are fired in `Graph`.

Some helper methods for handling native events are provided in `Event`.
It  also takes care of resolving cycles between DOM nodes and JavaScript event handlers.

Most custom events in Graph are implemented using `EventSource`. \
Its listeners are functions that take a sender and `EventObject`. \
Additionally, the `Graph` class fires special `MouseEvents` which are handled using mouse listeners, which are objects that provide a mousedown, mousemove and mouseup method.

Events in `EventSource` are fired using `EventSource.fireEvent`. \
Listeners are added and removed using `EventSource.addListener` and `EventSource.removeListener`. \
`MouseEvents` in `Graph` are fired using `Graph.fireMouseEvent`. Listeners are added and removed using `Graph.addMouseListener` and `Graph.removeMouseListener`, respectively.


## Key bindings

The following key bindings are defined for mouse events in the client across all browsers and platforms:
- Control-Drag: Duplicates (clones) selected cells
- Shift-Right-click: Shows the context menu
- Alt-Click: Forces rubberband (aka. marquee)
- Control-Select: Toggles the selection state
- Shift-Drag: Constrains the offset to one direction
- Shift-Control-Drag: Panning (also Shift-Right-drag)


## Configuration with the `Client` class

:::note

Other global configurations are described in [Global Configuration](../usage/global-configuration.md) documentation.

:::

The following global variables may be defined before the client is loaded to specify its language or base path, respectively:
- BasePath: Specifies the path in `Client.basePath`.
- ImageBasePath: Specifies the path in `Client.imageBasePath`.
- Language: Specifies the language for resources in `Client.language`.
- DefaultLanguage: Specifies the default language in `Client.defaultLanguage`.


## Reserved Words

The __ prefix was used for all classes and objects in Graph. Some remains in some properties of objects and classes defined in `maxGraph`.
The following field names should not be used in objects:
- *ObjectId*: If the object is used with ObjectIdentity
- *as*: If the object is a field of another object
- *id*: If the object is an idref in a codec
- *ListenerList*: Added to DOM nodes when used with `Event`


## Files

The library contains these relative filenames. All filenames are relative to `Client.basePath`.

### Built-in Images

All images are loaded from the `Client.imageBasePath`, which you can change to reflect your environment. \
The image variables can also be changed individually, using properties in `Graph`:
- collapsedImage
- expandedImage
- warningImage
- closeImage
- minimizeImage
- normalizeImage
- maximizeImage
- resizeImage
- submenuImage
- Utils.errorImage
- pointImage

The basename of the warning image (images/warning without extension) used in `Graph.setCellWarning` is defined in `Graph.warningImage`.


### Translations

:::warning

The following comes from `mxGraph` and needs to be reworked.
:::

They are managed by the `Translations` class. \
By default, the following conventions are used:
- Resource files use .txt extension
- Translation files are loaded from `${Client.basePath}/resources/`

Language support is configurable via `Client.languages`. The library ships with English and German resource files.

The `Editor` and `Graph` classes add the following resources to `Translations` at class loading time:
- resources/editor*.txt
- resources/graph*.txt


## Images

The following comes from `Graph` and needs to be updated to reflect the current state of `maxGraph`.

### Recommendations for using images

Use GIF images (256 color palette) in HTML elements (such as the toolbar and context menu),
and PNG images (24 bit) for all images which appear inside the graph component.

### Image rendering

For faster image rendering during application runtime, images can be prefetched using the following code:

```javascript
const image = new ImageBox();
image.src = url_to_image;
```
